[MUSIC]
>> Joe Nelson: And the next bit is
recognizing these types of functions
that are really useful,
like the days in month as a pure function.
A function that doesn't change anything
outside of itself and reacts the same way
to the same inputs, they're called pure,
and what does it make them?
Well, we've just been
beating it into the ground.
It makes them more testable,
as Brian mentioned, it makes them more
portable in the case that they don't
actually depend on some browser thing.
You could use them on
the client in the server.
It makes them memorizable, and
memorization is a technique that once you
run a function one time with a certain
input, a little thing watches over and
says okay, I'll remember that.
Next time someone tries to call
this function without input,
I won't even ask the function,
I'll just give it the input.
And like in Haskell and in other places,
and I guess, theoretically, in JavaScript
too, you could memorize these things
without having to think about it.
So in the cases where you wanna make
that space versus time tradeoff
in your programs, you don't have to
change, your function's already pure.
And finally parallelizable,
the tongue twister word,
so [LAUGH] because the things
don't change anything,
it doesn't matter which ones
you're running at what time.
If you have different processors,
you can run as many as you want.
They're not gonna step
on each other's toes.
So do we really understand
what purity means?
Let's play pure or impure.
I guess we have an advantage here with
the people that are present because we can
shout it out.
So here's a function, getQueryVariable.
You give it a variable, and
the idea is, if I was in a page like
items question page equals three, and
I say give me the page, like the query
string parameter, it should give me three.
So I give it the variable.
It checks and it gives me, pulls it
out of the url and gives it to me.
What's your guess?
Pure's good, by the way, so
I'll put thumbs up for pure.
Kill him for impure.
>> Joe Nelson: You're feeling thumbs down?
Why do you feel thumbs
down about this one?
>> Speaker 2: I don't wanna be the one to
answer that.
[LAUGH] Does anybody else want to-
>> Speaker 3: Windows location.
>> Speaker 4: Windows locations then?
>> Joe Nelson: Yep, it's looking,
it's looking at things
it shouldn't look at.
You're not pure.
Next, okay, here's one, random numbers.
This thing generates random numbers.
Who knows what comes out of that?
We give random numbers, like these
seed values, to kick it off, and
it gives you a random number,
kind of complicated in there.
What do you think about this one?
You're happy about it.
So you're not happy about it?
A lot of happiness.
It's making us all joyful.
It's pure, because although
it's doing complicated things,
it's doing them in a well defined way.
It's just like some number crunching,
and you give it the two numbers.
And it's kind of crazy as a side note
that this thing actually generates fairly
statistically spread out numbers
based on what you put into it.
I was playing,
nudging them by one or two, and
I was getting drastically different
numbers, it's a bizarre algorithm.
So pure or impure,
the final round, chattyAdd.
It adds numbers, but you kind of wanted
to know what's going on because you're
balancing a checkbook or something.
So it's telling you what just happened,
so you know what's going on.
Feels good?
You gotta feel like Caesar here.
I wanna see more thumbs,
should this thing live or should it die?
Live.
If I set a really pure function,
one that we can really count on,
it could be parallelizable,
I got it that time.
And it doesn't matter
when they're happening,
the result will look the same
from the outside world.
And if this thing's logging and
if you ran it in parallel,
you wouldn't know which order
the logs might come in.
So, it's not pure,
it's changing something.
The log, it's something, it's out there.
It's outside of the function, and
it just went out there and did it.
>> Speaker 2: People in chat
are kicking butt.
They're all like, I know, impure, done.
[LAUGH]
>> Joe Nelson: We got the pros.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 5: Although
wouldn't it matter what
console actually does?
You're assuming you know that
console is a impure function.
>> Joe Nelson: That's a good point.
It's like dependency injection, yeah.
>> Speaker 5: Yeah.
>> Joe Nelson: Maybe the takeaway would
be that, if you compose pure functions,
it stays pure.
But if one function
ever relies on another,
it'll become impure as
its argument was impure.
So purity begets purity.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 5: So would this function
actually be pure, what you're arguing
is it's the input that makes it
impure.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah, you're right.
>> Speaker 5: Cuz you're assuming
console is impure.
>> Joe Nelson: You're
right.
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
>> Joe Nelson: I guess I assumed it was in
a browser, and it passed in the console,
but it doesn't have to be the case.
It could be something that just throws it
away, it would be very impure, very pure.
It gets your computer hot or whatever.
>> Speaker 5: Yeah, it warms it up.
Well, I don't necessarily
know what console
log does.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah, exactly, it could be
something innocent as a flower.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Joe Nelson: So you just played our game